= rdoc-spellcheck

home :: https://github.com/drbrain/rdoc-spellcheck
rdoc :: http://docs.seattlerb.org/rdoc-spellcheck
bugs :: https://github.com/drbrain/rdoc-spellcheck/issues

== Description

rdoc-spellcheck checks your documentation for spelling errors.  File, class,
and method names are automatically excluded from the results and you can add
your own words to the default word list.

== Features

* Checks documentation for pages, classes, modules, methods, constants, etc.
* Prints a report showing each misspelled word and correction suggestions

== Problems

rdoc-spellcheck depends on aspell for which development has ceased despite
messages to the contrary.  I've submitted two pull requests to the
hunspell-ffi gem that should allow it to become a usable replacement for the
raspell gem.  (The currently released hunspell-ffi does not appear to support
private or session dictionaries.)

For some projects it seems there are too many false positives for names and
programming words.  I've reduced this somewhat by automatically including many
programming words in the session dictionary.  One solution involves switching
to hunspell which appears to have better-maintained word dictionaries.  The
other involves exploring an upper threshold for the edit distance between a
given word and its suggestion.

== Synopsis

  $ rdoc -f spellcheck lib *.rdoc

== Requirements

* rdoc
* libaspell -- See https://github.com/evan/raspell/blob/master/README.rdoc for
  installation instructions for aspell

== Install

  sudo gem install rdoc-spellcheck

== Developers

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) Eric Hodel

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

